docs(api): Refactor liquid control section (#13396)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: api/docs/v2/new_atomic_commands.rst

Reviewer: Check for `lets` --> `let's` throughout.

Author: Lets as in 3rd person singular is ok, right? As in giving you the ability, capability, or permission to do whatever it is. This method "allows you to do the thing"

> This method lets you . . .  
not

> This method let's you . . .

Reviewer: Yeah, not one for find and replace! Regular expressions can't save you here 🤪

**********************

Liquid Control
==============

After attaching a tip, your robot is ready to aspirate, dispense, and perform other liquid handling tasks. The API includes methods that help you perform these actions and the following sections show how to use them. The examples used here assume that you've loaded the pipettes and labware from the basic :ref:`protocol template <protocol-template>`. 

.. _new-aspirate:

Aspirate
--------

To draw liquid up into a pipette tip, call the :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.aspirate` method. This method lets you specify the aspiration volume in µL, the well location, and pipette flow rate. Other parameters let you position the pipette within a well. For example, this snippet tells the robot to aspirate 200 µL from well location A1.

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.pick_up_tip()
    pipette.aspirate(200, plate['A1'])

> If the pipette doesn't move, you can also specify an additional aspiration action without including a location. To demonstrate, lets pause the protocol, automatically resume it, and aspirate a second time from ``plate['A1'])``.

Reviewer: Maybe `If you don't want the pipette to move` or `If you want to aspirate at the pipette's current location`. Current phrasing makes it sound like the pipette or the API is in control, not the protocol author.

Also a li'l format fix:
```suggestion
If the pipette doesn't move, you can also specify an additional aspiration action without including a location. To demonstrate, lets pause the protocol, automatically resume it, and aspirate a second time from ``plate['A1']``).
```

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.pick_up_tip()
    pipette.aspirate(200, plate['A1'])

>     protocol.delay(seconds=5) # pause for 5 seconds

Reviewer: Here and everywhere, two spaces before the `#` that begins an inline comment. Because Black.

    pipette.aspirate(100)     # aspirate 100 µL at current position

Now our pipette holds 300 µL.

Aspirate by Well or Location
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :py:meth:`~.InstrumentContext.aspirate` method includes a ``location`` parameter that accepts either a ``Well`` or a ``Location``. 

> If you specify a well, like ``plate['A1']``, the pipette will aspirate from a default position 1 mm above the bottom center of that well. To change the default clearance, you would call :py:obj:`.well_bottom_clearance`:: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you specify a well, like ``plate['A1']``, the pipette will aspirate from a default position 1 mm above the bottom center of that well. To change the default clearance, first set the ``aspirate`` attribute of :py:obj:`.well_bottom_clearance`:: 
```
Adding a little clarity on how `well_bottom_clearance` operates and the importance of ordering here.

    pipette.pick_up_tip
    pipette.well_bottom_clearance.aspirate = 2 # tip is 2 mm above well bottom
    pipette.aspirate(200, plate['A1'])

You can also aspirate from a location along the center vertical axis within a well using the :py:meth:`.Well.top` and :py:meth:`.Well.bottom` methods. These methods move the pipette to a specified distance relative to the top or bottom center of a well::

    pipette.pick_up_tip()
    depth = plate['A1'].bottom(z=2) # tip is 2 mm above well bottom
    pipette.aspirate(200, depth)

See also:

- :ref:`new-default-op-positions` for information about controlling pipette height for a particular pipette.

> - :ref:`position-relative-labware` for formation about controlling pipette height from within a well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :ref:`position-relative-labware` for information about controlling pipette height from within a well.
```

- :ref:`move-to` for information about moving a pipette to any reachable deck location.

Aspiration Flow Rates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Flex and OT-2 pipettes aspirate at :ref:`default flow rates <new-plunger-flow-rates>` measured in µL/s. Adding a number to the ``rate`` parameter multiplies the flow rate by that value. As a best practice, don't set the flow rate higher than 3x the default. For example, this code causes the pipette to aspirate at twice its normal rate::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flex and OT-2 pipettes aspirate at :ref:`default flow rates <new-plunger-flow-rates>` measured in µL/s. Specifying the ``rate`` parameter multiplies the flow rate by that value. As a best practice, don't set the flow rate higher than 3x the default. For example, this code causes the pipette to aspirate at twice its normal rate::
```
To avoid confusion with arithmetic addition.

    pipette.aspirate(200, plate['A1'], rate=2.0)

.. Removed note related to API v1

.. Removed note because pipette clearance defaults and locations are now covered

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. _new-dispense:

Dispense
--------

To dispense liquid from a pipette tip, call the :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.dispense` method. This method lets you specify the dispense volume in µL, the well location, and pipette flow rate. Other parameters let you position the pipette within a well. For example, this snippet tells the robot to dispense 200 µL into well location B1.

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.dispense(200, plate['B1'])

> If the pipette doesn’t move, you can also specify an additional dispense action without including a location. To demonstrate, lets pause the protocol, automatically resume it, and dispense a second time from location B1.

Reviewer: Mirror changes to language in Aspirate § above (here and in following paragraphs).

**********************

Liquid Control
==============

> After attaching a tip, your robot is ready to aspirate, dispense, and perform other liquid handling tasks. The API provides the following methods that help you manipulate liquids in your protocols. These include:

Reviewer: Some thoughts on this list…

- Either `the following methods` _or_ `These include` depending on whether this list is exhaustive — it at least appears to be w.r.t. what this page covers.
- For the list itself, we probably shouldn't repeat `InstrumentContext.` every time, for readability. 
- I'm torn on whether each item should link directly to the reference, or whether it should link down this page. Each subsection begins with a `:py:meth:` link to the reference, for anyone who's looking for reference entries rather than prose explanations.

Author: I was uncomfortable with the bullet list too. Let's try something different, a bit more general without links to methods or page sections. I will summarize what the page covers and let the section headers and table of contents do the work of links in a bullet list.

- :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.aspirate`
- :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.dispense`
- :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.blow_out`
- :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.touch_tip`
- :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.mix`
- :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.air_gap`

The following sections demonstrate how to use each method and include sample code. The examples used here assume that you've loaded the pipettes and labware from the basic :ref:`protocol template <protocol-template>`. 

.. _new-aspirate:

Aspirate
--------

> To draw liquid up into a pipette tip, call the :py:meth:`~.InstrumentContext.aspirate` method. This method lets you specify the aspiration volume in µL, the well location, and pipette flow rate. Other parameters let you position the pipette within a well. For example, this snippet tells the robot to remove 200 µL from well location A1.

Reviewer: `remove 200 µL from well location A1`
Probably trying to not repeat "aspirate" over and over here, but I think the repetition is OK. Or to paraphrase, something like `draw 200 µL into the tip` may be more precise than `remove`.

Author: I was trying to avoid over-use of "aspirate." Will put it back in that last sentence.

> For example, this snippet tells the robot to aspirate 200 µL from well A1.

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.pick_up_tip()
    pipette.aspirate(200, plate['A1'])

If the pipette doesn't move, you can also specify an additional aspiration action without including a location. To demonstrate, lets pause the protocol, automatically resume it, and aspirate a second time from ``plate['A1'])``.

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.pick_up_tip()
    pipette.aspirate(200, plate['A1'])
    protocol.delay(seconds=5) # pause for 5 seconds

>     pipette.aspirate(100)     # aspirate 100 uL from current position

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pipette.aspirate(100)     # aspirate 100 µL from current position
```
pedantry

Author: No no, not  pedantry at all. An important style issue/consideration. Thank you for highlighting that. I usually fix these closer to the end of the drafting process. I think all the instances of "uL" have been replaced by "µL". 

Same with any occurrences of other measurement units and numbers (2mm vs 2 mm).

Now our pipette holds 300 µL.

Aspirate by Well or Location
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``aspirate()`` method includes a ``location`` parameter that accepts either a ``Well`` or a ``Location``. 

> **By Well**

Reviewer: oh no, we're down into H5 territory or something. but that won't be the case when this become its own page. all the headers will get promoted up a level (Liquid Control will be an H1) so this can be an H4 then. but it will show in the sidebar.

Author: Oh no indeed!  I will re-write to remove the bold headers. Didn't realize these would be H5s, which is horrible.

> If you specify a well, like ``plate['A1']``, the pipette will aspirate from a default position 1 mm above the bottom center of that well. To change the default clearance, you would call :py:obj:`.well_bottom_clearance` as shown below.

Reviewer: technically not a call because clearance is an attribute 🙃 
```suggestion
If you specify a well, like ``plate['A1']``, the pipette will aspirate from a default position 1 mm above the bottom center of that well. To change the default clearance, set :py:obj:`.well_bottom_clearance`:
```

Author: Fixed.

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.pick_up_tip

>     pipette.well_bottom_clearance.aspirate=2 # place tip 2 mm above well bottom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pipette.well_bottom_clearance.aspirate = 2 # place tip 2 mm above well bottom
```
⬛️

    pipette.aspirate(200, plate['A1'])

> See also, :ref:`new-default-op-positions` for information about controlling pipette height for a particular well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See also, :ref:`new-default-op-positions` for information about controlling aspiration height for a particular pipette.
```
…since this is a pipette parameter.

Author: Revisions include suggested change.

**By Location**

> You can also aspirate from a point along the center vertical axis within a well using the :py:obj:`.Well.top` and :py:meth:`.Well.bottom` methods. These methods move the pipette to a specified distance relative to the top or bottom center of a well. For example, you could change the default aspirate height as shown below.

Reviewer: use `obj` or `meth` (probably the latter) for both. this currently renders:
>[Well.top](http://sandbox.docs.opentrons.com/docs-liquid-control/v2/new_protocol_api.html#opentrons.protocol_api.Well.top) and [Well.bottom()](http://sandbox.docs.opentrons.com/docs-liquid-control/v2/new_protocol_api.html#opentrons.protocol_api.Well.bottom)

Author: fixed

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.pick_up_tip()
    depth = plate['A1'].bottom(z=2) # place tip 2 mm above well bottom
    pipette.aspirate(200, depth)

> See also, :ref:`position-relative-labware` for information about on controlling pipette height from within a well.

Reviewer: worth linking to section on `move_to()` in case users need to change X or Y position for aspirate?

Author: added shortcut to `move_to()`

    pipette.aspirate(200, plate['A1'], rate=2.0)

.. Removed note related to API v1

.. Removed note because pipette clearance defaults and locations are now covered

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. _new-dispense:

Dispense
--------

To dispense liquid from a pipette tip, call the :py:meth:`~.InstrumentContext.dispense` method. This method lets you specify the dispense volume in µL, the well location, and pipette flow rate. For example, this snippet tells the robot to dispense 200 µL into well location B1.

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.dispense(200, plate['B1'])

If the pipette doesn’t move, you can also specify an additional dispense action without including a location. To demonstrate, lets assume the pipette currently holds 200 µL. Next, we'll pause the protocol, automatically resume it, and dispense a second time into well location B1.

.. code-block:: python
    
    pipette.dispense(100, plate['B1'])
    protocol.delay(seconds=5) # pause for 5 seconds

>     pipette.aspirate(100)     # aspirate 100 uL from current position

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pipette.dispense(100)     # dispense 100 µL at current position
```
📋 🍝

Author: fixed

    
Dispense by Well or Location
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``dispense()`` method includes a ``location`` parameter that accepts either a ``Well`` or a ``Location``.

**By Well**

If you specify a well, like ``plate['B1']``, the pipette will dispense from a default position 1 mm above the bottom center of that well. To change the default clearance, you would call :py:obj:`.well_bottom_clearance` as shown below. 

.. code-block:: python

    pipette.well_bottom_clearance.dispense=2 # place tip 2 mm above well bottom

>     pipette.aspirate(200, plate['B1'])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pipette.dispense(200, plate['B1'])
```

.. _blow-out:

Blow Out
--------

To blow an extra amount of air through the pipette's tip, call the :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.blow_out` method. You can use a specific well in a well plate or reservoir as the blowout location. If no location is specified, the pipette will blowout from its current well position::

    pipette.blow_out()

You can also specify a particular well as the blowout location::

    pipette.blow_out(plate['B1'])

Many protocols use trash bin for blowing out the pipette. You can specify the trash bin as the blowout location by using the :py:meth:`.ProtocolContext.fixed_trash` method::

>     pipette.blow_out(protocol.fixed_trash['A1'])  

Reviewer: This works fine on both robots for now, but we should monitor progress of RSS-290. Ticketed on our side as RTC-333.

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. _touch-tip:

Touch Tip
---------

The :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.touch_tip` method moves the pipette so the tip touches each wall of a well. A touch tip procedure helps knock off any droplets that might cling to the pipette's tip. This method includes optional arguments that let you specify where the tip will touch the inner walls of a well and the touch speed. Calling :py:meth:`~.InstrumentContext.touch_tip` without arguments causes the pipette to touch the well walls from its current location::

    pipette.touch_tip() 

Touch Location
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These optional location arguments give you control over where the tip will touch the side of a well.

This example demonstrates touching the tip in a specific well::

    pipette.touch_tip(plate['B1'])
    
This example uses an offset to set the touch tip location 2mm below the top of the current well::

    pipette.touch_tip(v_offset=-2) 

This example moves the pipette 75% of well's total radius and 2 mm below the top of well::

    pipette.touch_tip(plate['B1'], 
                      radius=0.75,
                      v_offset=-2)

> When ``radius=1``, the robot moves the centerline of the pipette’s plunger axis to the exact edge of the well. Sometimes this means a pipette tip may hit the well wall or edge first and bends inwards. Setting the radius to < 1 helps avoid hitting the well wall prematurely. If you need to use it, test the radius argument first before starting a protocol production run.

Reviewer: Maybe a chance for some levity here, along the lines of:
"The purpose of `touch_tip` is to _touch_ the edges of the well, not to crash into them. Using a smaller radius and lower speed produces gentler motion. Droplets of different types of liquid behave differently, so test out these parameters in a single well before performing a full protocol run."

Author: Ooof, that's what passes for humor? Borscht Belt here we come! Time for some Pocono Palaver. Tip your waitstaff, enjoy the veal, I'm here all week. badum tsssss.

I'd like to keep some of Seth's explanation in here. How about trying to combine some of these:

**Revised**
The  `touch_tip` feature allows the pipette to touch the edges of a well gently instead of crashing into them. When `radius=1` the robot moves the centerline of the pipette’s plunger axis to the edge of the well. This means a pipette tip may sometimes hit the well wall too early, causing the tip to bend inwards. A smaller radius helps avoid a premature wall collision and a lower speed produces gentler motion. Different liquid droplets behave differently, so test out these parameters in a single well before performing a full protocol run.

.. warning::
    *Do not* set the ``radius`` value greater than ``1.0``. When ``radius`` is > ``1.0``, the robot will forcibly move the pipette tip across a well wall or edge. This type of aggressive movement can damage the pipette tip and the pipette.

Touch Speed
^^^^^^^^^^^

Touch speed controls how fast the pipette moves in mm/s during a touch tip step. The default movement speed is 60 mm/s, the minimum is 20 mm/s, and the maximum is 80 mm/s. Calling ``touch_tip`` without any arguments moves a tip at the default speed in the current well::

    pipette.touch_tip()

This example specifies a well location and sets the speed to 20 mm/s::

    pipette.touch_tip(plate['B1'], speed=20)

This example uses the current well and sets the speed to 80 mm/s::

    pipette.touch_tip(speed=80)

.. versionadded:: 2.0

> .. there was a recommendation to remove the note

Reviewer: we could compress the note rather than removing it:
```suggestion
.. versionchanged:: 2.4
    Lowered minimum speed to 1 mm/s.
```

This example draws 100 µL from the current well and mixes it three times::

    pipette.mix(repetitions=3, volume=100)

This example draws 100 µL from well B1 and mixes it three times:: 

    pipette.mix(3, 100, plate['B1'])

This example draws an amount equal to the pipette's maximum rated volume and mixes it three times::

    pipette.mix(repetitions=3)

.. note::

    In API versions 2.2 and earlier, during a mix, the pipette moves up and out of the target well. In API versions 2.3 and later, the pipette does not move while mixing. 

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. _air-gap:

Air Gap
-------

The :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.air_gap` method tells the pipette to draw in air before or after a liquid. Creating an air gap helps keep liquids from seeping out of a pipette after drawing it from a well. This method includes arguments that let you control the amount of air to aspirate and the pipette's height (in mm) above the well. By default, the pipette moves 5 mm above a well before aspirating air. Calling :py:meth:`~.InstrumentContext.air_gap` with no arguments uses the entire remaining volume in the pipette.

This example aspirates 200 µL of air 5 mm above the current well::

>     pipette.air_gap(volume=200)

Reviewer: 200 is a biiiiiiig air gap. Maybe use 20, like the existing example.

Author: The section is based on, and linked to, those sample protocol files on another page. I selected 200 b/c the linked examples use a 1000 uL pipette. Drawing 20 ul of air from a 1000 ul pipette doesn't seem like a good example (or even accurately possible). That's why this uses such a large amount of air.

From the section intro:

> The examples used here assume that you've loaded the pipettes and labware from the basic `:ref:protocol template <protocol-template>.`

.. _blow-out:

Blow Out
--------

> To blow an extra amount of air through the pipette's tip, call the :py:meth:`~.InstrumentContext.blow_out` method. You can use a specific well in a well plate or reservoir as the blow out location. If no location is specified, the pipette will blow out from its current well position. For example::

Reviewer: `blowout` as a modifier? i think so. so `blowout location`.

Author: fixed

    pipette.blow_out()            # blow out from the current location

>     pipette.blow_out(plate['B1']) # blow out into well B1

Reviewer: probably also useful to demonstrate 
```
pipette.blow_out(protocol.fixed_trash['A1'])  # blow out into the trash
```
i think it's a pretty common use case.

Author: great use case. Adding.

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. _touch-tip:

Touch Tip
---------

The :py:meth:`~.InstrumentContext.touch_tip` method moves the pipette so the tip touches each wall of a well. A touch tip procedure helps to knock off any droplets that might be hanging on to the pipette's tip. This method includes optional arguments that let you specify where the tip will touch the inner walls of a well plate and the touch speed. Calling the ``touch_tip()`` method without arguments causes the pipette to touch the well walls from its current location::

    pipette.touch_tip() 

The ``touch_tip()`` method also includes optional arguments that control the location and speed of a touch procedure. For example::

    # touch tip in well B1
    pipette.touch_tip(plate['B1'])
    # touch tip 2mm below the top of the current location
    pipette.touch_tip(v_offset=-2) 
    # touch tip in well B1 at 100 mm/s
    pipette.touch_tip(plate['B1'], speed=100)
    # touch tip in well B1, at 75% of total radius and -2mm from top of well

>     pipette.touch_tip(plate['B1'], 

Reviewer: kinda weird this is on 3 lines, it'll fit on 1. the snippet gets a little dense then, but we could put blank lines between each comment–command pair.

Reviewer: it would also be nice to figure out why adjusting radius is helpful. it's not self-explanatory to me. if you reduce it, might the tip not actually touch? unless there are big droplets maybe? 🤷

Reviewer: and on the flip side, we should probably have a `.. warning::` about large values of `radius` 💥

Author: > kinda weird this is on 3 lines, it'll fit on 1.

I want to put all these in a table, so you're lucky we get this. haha!

Author: Updating text, added warning, and checking around about _why_ set the radius to less than 1.

Author: Added warning, revised text and code samples to put them more with/in text.

                      radius=0.75,
                      v_offset=-2)

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. note:

>     We recommend changing your API version to 2.4 (or higher) to take advantage of new ``touch_tip()``

Reviewer: i think this level of detail could be saved for the reference. 2.4 is pretty old too.

Author: Removed

    features such as:
        - A lower minimum speed (1 mm/s)
        - Improved handling
        - Removed diagonal X -> Y position changes while moving the tip directly to the specified height offset.

.. _mix:

Mix
---

> The :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.mix` method performs a series of aspirate and dispense on a single location. It's designed to help mix the contents of a well together using a single command rather than using multiple ``aspirate()`` and ``dispense()`` calls. This method includes arguments that let you specify the number of times to mix, the volume (in uL) of liquid, and the location of a well that contains the liquid you want to mix.   

Reviewer: possibility for first sentence: 
```suggestion
The :py:meth:`~.InstrumentContext.mix` method aspirates and dispenses repeatedly in a single location. It's designed to help mix the contents of a well together using a single command rather than using multiple ``aspirate()`` and ``dispense()`` calls. This method includes arguments that let you specify the number of times to mix, the volume (in µL) of liquid, and the well that contains the liquid you want to mix.   
```

Author: Adopted

.. code-block:: python

    # mix 3 times, 50 uL, current location
    pipette.mix(3, 50)
    # mix 4 times, 100 uL, from well A2
    pipette.mix(4, 100, plate['A2'])

>     # mix 2 times, use the pipette's max volume, current location

Reviewer: maybe split this out as a separate snippet and explain this behavior in a sentence (in addition to the comment)

Author: Yes, will use separate sentences and code samples and replace the large code block/comments combo.

    pipette.mix(2)

.. note::

>     In API Versions 2.2 and earlier, during a mix, the pipette moves up and out of the target well. In API Version 2.3 and later, the pipette does not move between aspirate and dispense mixing actions. 

Reviewer: downcase `version` — feels like old style (or lack thereof)

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. _air-gap:

> Air Gap

Reviewer: `uL` -> `µL` throughout this section

Author: These have been fixed already.

-------

> The :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.air_gap` method tells the pipette to aspirate some air after a liquid. Creating an air gap can help prevent a liquid from leaking out of the pipette after drawing it from a well. Calling the ``air_gap()`` method without any arguments uses the remaining volume in the pipette tip. For example, if you load a 1000 uL pipette on a Flex and tell the robot to aspirate 500 uL of liquid, it will use the remaining 500 uL for the air gap::

Reviewer: maybe `aspirate air instead of liquid`. it typically comes after aspirating liquid but doesn't have to. i've heard that FAS uses "pre-air-gapping" as a technique for certain applications.

Author: Let's try this maybe:

> The :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.air_gap` method tells the pipette to draw in air before or after a liquid.
